Translation of The Holy Quran by Shaykh Mufti Taqi Usmani

Who is Mufti Taqi Usmani?
Mufti Muhammad Taqi Usmani is one of the leading Islamic scholars living today. He is an expert in the fields of Islamic
Jurisprudence, Economics, Hadith and Tasawwuf. Born in Deoband in 1362H(1943 CE), he graduated par excellence
form Dars e Nizami at Darul Uloom, Karachi, Pakistan. Then he specialized in Islamic Jurisprudence under the guidance
of his eminent father, Mufti Muhammad Shafi, the late Grand Mufti of Pakistan. Since then, he has been teaching hadith
and Fiqh at the Darul-Uloom, Karachi.
He has authority to teach hadith from his father Mufti Muhammad Shafi, Maulana Idrees Khandhelawi, Qari
Mohammed Tayyeb, Maulana Saleemullah Khan, Mufti Rasheed, Moulana Sehban Mahmood, Allama Zafar Ahmed
Usmani, Sheikhul Hadith Moulana Zakariya Khandelawi, Sheikh Hassan Meshat (ra) and others.
In tradition to the scholars of Deoband, recognizing the importance of Tasawwuf, he traversed the path under the
guidance of Sheikh Dr. Abdul Hayy Arifi and Moulana Maseehullah Khan both khulafa of Hakeemul Ummat Moulana
Ashraf Ali Thanvi (rahmetullah ajmaeen). And is authorized by both of his mentors in Silsila e Ashrafia: Chistiyyah,
Naqshbandiyah, Qadiriyah and Suharwardiyah. In addition to his busy schedule he is himself a mentor to numerous
spiritual aspirants all over the world.
He also holds a degree in law and was a Judge at the Sharia Appellate Bench of the Supreme Court of Pakistan till
recently.
He is a consultant to several international Islamic financial institutions and has played a key part in the move toward
interest free banking and the establishment of Islamic financial institutions. He is considered to be an authority on this
subject.
He is the deputy chairman of the Jeddah based Islamic Fiqh Council of the Organization of Islamic Conference (OIC).
He has been writing on various Islamic topics and is author of more than 60 books and numerous articles.
Presently he is the Vice-president of Darul-Uloom, Karachi, Pakistan, where he teaches Sahih Bukhari, Fiqh and Islamic
economics.
He also conducts a weekly session for the public interested in spiritual improvement.

List of publications.
Here is a partial list of publications authored by Justice Taqi Usmani. (Updated May 2004), visit http://www.central-mosque.com/ for more info

English Books:

The Authority of Sunnah
The Rules of I'tikaf
What is Christianity?
Easy Good Deeds
Perform Salah Correctly
An Introduction to Islamic Finance
Historic Judgment on Interest
The Language of Friday Khutbah
Discourse on Islamic way of Life
Sayings of Prophet Muhammad sallalaho alehey wasalam
The Legal Status of Following a Madhab

Spiritual Discourses
Islamic Months
Radiant Prayers
Quranic Sciences
Islam and Modernism
Contemporary Fatawa

Arabic Books:

Takmala Fathul Mulhim (An encyclopedic work of interpretation of Sahih Muslim in six volumes).
Ma Hea An-Nasraniyah? (What is Christianity?)
Nathrat 'Abarah Houl At-Ta'limi Al-Islamiyah (About Islamic Education).
Ahkamu Al-Auraq An-Naqdiyah (Rulings regarding paper money).
Bahouth Fee Qadaya Fiqheyah Ma'asirah (Fiqh discussions on some important contemporary issues).
Ahkam uz Zibai’h (Islamic rulings for slaughtering animals)

Urdu Books:

Ina’mul Bari (Explanation of famous hadith collection Sahih Bukhari) (9 volumes, 3 published as yet)
Asan Nakian (Easy Good Deeds)
Undulus Mei Chand Rooz (A Few Days in Andalus/Spain)
Islam aur Seasate Hazra ( Islam and Contemporary Politics)
Islam aur Jidat Pasandi (Islam and Modernism)
Islahe Ma'ashara (Perfecting society)
Islahi mawa’iz (Discourses for spiritual perfection) (3 volumes)
Islahi Majalis (Discourses on Tasawwuf) (5 volumes)
Islahi Khutubat (Discourses on individual spiritual perfection) (13 volumes)
Ihkami I'tikaf (The Rules of I'tikaf)
Islam aur Jadeed Ma'eeshat wa Tijarat (Islam and Modern Economics & Commerce)
Akabir Deoband Kea They? (The Significant Character of Scholars of Deoband)
Bible sey Quran Tak (3 volumes)
Bible Kea Heh? (What is the Bible?)
Pur noor Duain (Radiant Prayers) (Collection of Prayers for all occasions)
Tarashey (Excerpts from Islamic works)
Taqleed Ki Shari'i Hasiat (The Legal Status of Following a Madhab)
Jahaney Deda (Travelogue I)
Dunya meray aa’gay (Travelogue II)
Hazrat Mu'awiyah (Radi-Allahu anhu) aur Tarikhi Haqa`iq (Hazrat Mu'awiyah Radi-Allahu anhu and the Historical
Facts)
Hujjiat Hadith (Authority of hadith)
Hudhur (Salla-Allahu alayhi wa Sallam) ney Farmaya (Sayings of Prophet Sall-Allahu alayhi wa sallam)
Hakeemul Ummat Kay Siasi Afkar (Political Thoughts of Maulana Ashraf Ali Thanvi)
Durse Tirmidhi (Explanation of famous hadith collection Sunan e Tirmizi)
Deeny Madaris ka Nisab wa Nitham
Zikr o Fikr (Collection of articles written for Daily newspaper Jang)
Zabet-e-weladat (Birth Control: Islamic rulings)
'Iesayat kea hey? (What is Christianity?)
'Uloom ul-Quran (Quranic Sciences)
'Idalatey Faiseley (Court Rulings)
Fard key Islah (Individual Reform)
Fiqhi Maqalat (Collection of articles on Islamic Jurisprudence)
Maasir Hazrat Arifi (Sayings and memories of Dr Adbul Hayy Arifi)
Meray Walid Meray Sheikh (My Father, My Sheikh)
Milkiate Zamion aur us key tahdid (Land ownership and its limitation)
Nashri Taqreerain (Speeches aired on Radio Pakistan)
Nuqooshe Raftigan (Obituaries of Islamic Scholars and other dignitaries)
Nifaze Shariat aur us key masail (Establishment of Sharia: Problems)
Namazein Sunnat key Mutabiq Parhey (Pray Salah according to Sunnah)
Hamarey 'A`eli Masa`il (Our Family Issues)
Hamara Ta'lemi Nizam (Our Educational System)
Hamara Ma'ashi Nizam (Our Economic Sysytem)
Dastoorul amal baeraey talibeen e islah (Instructions for aspirants of spiritual improvement)
